have you been thinking that you really
should be recording more video content
but for whatever reason you just haven't
done that maybe you don't like the look
or the sound of yourself and watching
back that recording or maybe there's
other reasons maybe you think you don't
have time whatever it is i'm glad you're
interested in recording more video
content and i'm hoping by the end of
this video that you will be encouraged
and inspired to start hitting that
record button and putting out video
content because there are a lot of
benefits to doing so hey everyone my
name is wade patterson and i am
passionate about impactful communication
my youtube channel is all about making
you a better public speaker a better
content creator
all sorts of things so if this video
provides you any value at all please
subscribe to my channel i would really
appreciate it so back to the topic of
the video of producing more video
content and let's start off with why why
should you be interested in doing this
i'm a big fan of the saying the medium
is the message and that it's not so much
what you say in the message as it is the
way you say it and this has all forms of
communication tied in but when we
include video communication it's much
more powerful than text communication or
audio communication because we're
incorporating the visuals the body
language you can determine so much of a
person's intended communication simply
by watching his or her body language
when they speak i've used a few examples
in the past on this channel of how
important body language is and that you
can say the same words twice and they
could have completely different meanings
for example
i'm really enjoying shooting this video
this is awesome
means something completely different
than i am really enjoying shooting this
video this is awesome i just said the
same words in two different ways and
they had vastly different meanings and
this is why video is powerful we also
know that video communication resonates
with consumers of content whether that's
on social media or video emails or any
sort of format so there's benefit if
you're a business or you're trying to
grow your following of incorporating
video into your communication mix and
what's crazy is we've been talking about
video content for a very long time since
decades and decades we've known that
video is important but for some reason
the majority hasn't grasped on most
people don't produce video
at a regular cadence where it would
really benefit their business or
whatever that they're trying to
accomplish so there is still an
opportunity if you are that person who
starts to incorporate more video i
certainly think that in years down the
road we will see even more and more
video content than we already do so if
you're thinking you're too late to the
game you're not you're still in a good
timing where you can really benefit from
producing video content it's funny
because you may have a situation where
you're by yourself in a room and and
you're practicing saying something and
it's no problem but as soon as you stick
a camera in front of you even though
nobody's in the room all of a sudden we
freeze up that is a completely natural
reaction and perhaps it's because we
know in the future somebody is going to
watch that content
but
through this video through these tips
i'm going to give you a couple of ideas
which will hopefully take away that fear
so that when you set up a camera just
like i'm doing right now you hit record
and you start talking with no hesitation
before we dive into the specific tips i
want to address something that is a very
common fear maybe not even fear but a
feeling amongst people when they watch
back their videos and maybe they look or
they sound different than they thought
or they don't like the way that they're
coming across but it's important to
remember that that's you that's a video
representation of you and people are
used to seeing you in person when you go
to a social event
you are yourself you're going there
you're meeting people face to face video
is no different so don't beat yourself
up over how you think maybe you sound or
anything like that because the truth is
everyone is uncomfortable when they
start video it takes more time and
practice until they become more
comfortable and before you know it
you're going to be a natural you're
going to crush it at video okay enough
with the introduction let's dive into
those specific tips that are really
important to consider when you're
producing video content and tip number
one that i have is to smile smile more
than you think you need to smile because
the truth is
when somebody is watching the video of
you
even though it might feel uncomfortable
how much you are smiling that positivity
that energy is going to translate you
have to almost overdo it on video for
the viewer to actually kind of get the
benefit of seeing your upbeat enthusiasm
so ensure that you are smiling a lot
when you're producing video a common
mistake is that a lot of people don't
smile at all they are so serious they're
on film and it's kind of awkward to
watch it just doesn't look like the
person is enjoying themselves it does
look like they're a little bit
uncomfortable on camera now i understand
that not every video is going to
be an upbeat or a fun tone and so of
course use common sense if you're
talking about serious subject matter
maybe for that video you have to be a
little bit more toned down but the
majority of videos even if it's kind of
a neutral topic that you're trying to
educate somebody about smile often
because your viewers will appreciate it
the second tip i have is to do a little
bit of planning before you turn on the
camera and hit record plan a basic
structure of what you want to talk about
i think there's an assumption sometimes
that people just wing it and turn on the
camera and just go for it right away and
talk off the top of their head but even
as i'm shooting this video right now
i've thought about what i want to say
i've given myself some notes and i'm not
reading off of a teleprompter or
anything like that i know the basics
because i've thought about it i've read
through my notes and as i'm shooting the
video i know i can break it into chunks
if i screw up on something i can pause
reset
and then read that line again and in the
editing process i can chop that together
to make it seem natural and have that
flow that isn't distracting for the
viewer like i've said so many times in
past videos on my channel talking about
preparing for speeches don't plan
everything out verbatim word for word
there's no need for that just give
yourself categories or topics that you
want to talk about
reference those look at the camera give
yourself a second so that the editing
can be an easy stitch and then begin
talking about whatever it is that you
want to talk about my third tip is if
you're not so great with the
memorization piece and that's causing
you a lot of frustration you can place a
note just past the camera something that
you quickly glance at from time to time
with bullet point reminders of what you
want to talk about in the video it's
important not to stare and read off of a
note because as you can probably tell
like i'm doing right now i'm not
maintaining eye contact with the camera
and it looks as though i'm reading
something
maintain that eye contact you can look
around from time to time as you are
on video talking about whatever you're
talking about
but if you have a subtle note that has
bullet point reminders it might be a
quick and easy way for you to reference
remind yourself what you were going to
talk about next
that way you don't have to continually
bring out another sheet of paper and
read off and make the editing job really
hard you might even be able to do it in
one take by talking to the camera
quickly looking referencing your notes
and continuing with whatever it is that
you are hoping to talk about my fourth
tip is to just do it so many people talk
about wanting to produce video at some
point it's the thing that they have
planned down the road
the reality is if you never get started
if you never hit that record button it's
going to be easy to continually come up
with excuses that prevent you from
actually doing it
look at any famous youtuber and their
earliest videos you'll notice a common
thread that everyone started at a very
basic level mr beast recently talked
about how his first camera was
a not very good laptop camera that he
would use and his audio equipment was
horrible and he just surpassed 100
million subscribers on youtube but the
point was he got started somewhere
everyone has to start at some point and
your videos likely aren't going to be
the most professional quality off the
hop they can evolve to a certain point
that you can be incredibly proud of but
getting started is the key hitting that
record button shooting that first video
and then learning how you can improve
from there but the key is to get started
a final fifth bonus tip i will give for
this video of how to start producing
video content how to be comfortable on
video
is to
shoot a batch of videos at once you may
notice on my youtube channel that
sometimes four videos in a row i am
wearing the same outfit which really i
could go to more effort and constantly
change my shirt but i'll be completely
transparent with you even even as i am
recording this video today i'm recording
three other videos i have all my camera
equipment set up why not make the most
of the moment this is a good way to
batch video content create two three
four five videos at a time maybe more
maybe you want to spend a whole day
recording videos that are going to last
over the next two months that's a great
idea but once you're already set up and
you've got all the equipment ready to go
it doesn't really make sense to just
shoot one video if there are multiple
videos you can be shooting take that
opportunity shoot more content which is
going to last
longer online i hope this video on how
to make yourself comfortable producing
video content was valuable to you if it
was please subscribe to my channel i am
passionate about impactful communication
and my dedication to you is that i will
continue producing videos just like this
also consider leaving a comment i really
try to get in there and reply to as many
of the comments as possible i would
appreciate you commenting and let me
know was this video helpful did i miss
any tips leave it in the comments
otherwise thank you so much for watching
and i'll catch you on the next one